London

London is a very old city. It is about two thousand years old.
Today London is one of the biggest cities in the world. Its population is about 8 million people. It's not only a capital of Great Britain, but also a large business and commercial centre. London stands on the Thames.
As an ancient city London has a great number of places of historic interest. They attract tourists from the whole world.
London is traditionally divided into four main parts. They are Westminster, the City, the West End and the East End.
Westminster is the historical area in London. Famous monuments and buildings are there. One of the most beautiful places is Westminster Abbey.
Many greatest poets and writers are buried there. Chauser, Dickens, Kipling are among them. Newton and Darwin are buried there too.
Another place which is worth seeing in London is the Tower. In different times this castle was a fortress, a royal palace, a prison. Now it is a museum.
London is rich in famous palaces. Buckingham Palace is the official residence of the Queen. Westminster Palace is the seat of the British Parliament.
The greatest of English churches is St. Paul's Cathedral. It was built by a famous English architect, Sir Christopher Wren.
Trafalgar Square is considered to be the very centre of London. In the middle of it stands the monument to admiral Nelson.
London is famous for its streets and squares as well. Fleet Street is known for the newspaper offices situated there. Regent Street is famous for the richest shops and supermarkets.
Speaking about London, it is impossible to say nothing about its museums. The British Museum displays works of art from ancient Asia, Egypt, Rome and Greece side by side with those of Great Britain and other countries.
 
Лондон

Лондон – дуже старе місто. Йому – близько двох тисяч років.
Зараз Лондон – одне з найбільших міст у світі. Його населення – близько 8 мільйонів чоловік. Це не тільки столиця Великобританії, це великий діловий і комерційний центр. Лондон стоїть на Темзі.
Оскільки стародавнє місто Лондон має численні історично цікаві місця, воно привертає туристів зі всього світу.
Лондон традиційно ділиться на чотири головні частини. Це Вестмінстер, Сіті, Вест-енд та Іст-енд.
Вестмінстер – історичний район Лондона. Там є знамениті пам'ятники й будівлі. Одне з найкрасивіших місць – Вестмінстерське Абатство.
Багато найвизначніших поетів і письменників поховано там. Серед них Чосер, Діккенс, Кіплінг. Також там поховані Ньютон і Дарвін.
Інше місце, яке варто побачити в Лондоні – Тауер. У різні часи цей замок був фортецею, королівським палацом, в'язницею. Зараз це музей.
Лондон багатий знаменитими палацами. Букенгемський Палац – офіційна резиденція Королеви. Вестмінстерський Палац – місце засідань Британського Парламенту.
Найбільша англійська церква – собор Святого Павла. Його побудував знаменитий англійський архітектор Сер Крістофер Рен.
Вважається, що Трафальгарська площа є центром Лондона. Посеред неї стоїть пам'ятник адміралу Нельсону.
Лондон також знаменитий своїми вулицями й площами. Фліт Стріт відома через розташовані там газетні офіси. Реджент Стріт знаменита найбагатшими магазинами й супермаркетами.
Кажучи про Лондон, неможливо не сказати нічого про його музеї. Британський Музей демонструє витвори мистецтва стародавньої Азії, Єгипту, Риму і Греції поряд з витворами мистецтва Великобританії та інших країн.
